Add documentation for ironOS (Pinecil V2) integration (#33512)
home-assistant/home-assistant.github.io: source/_integrations/iron_os.markdown

---
title: ironOS
description: Instructions on how to integrate ironOS-based Pinecil V2 devices with Home Assistant.
ha_category:
  - Sensor
ha_iot_class: Local Polling
ha_release: 2024.8
ha_config_flow: true
ha_codeowners:
  - '@tr4nt0r'
ha_domain: iron_os
ha_integration_type: integration
ha_platforms:
  - sensor
---

The **ironOS** {% term integration %} seamlessly connects Home Assistant with PINE64's Pinecil V2 soldering irons, allowing for remote monitoring and control. This integration provides real-time updates on temperature, power, and various other settings and diagnostic information.

{% include integrations/config_flow.md %}

> ## Sensors

Reviewer: I think for some of descriptions it could be helpful to have a unit. (for example: is it in degrees Celsius?)

Author: But the unit and precision depends on what the user sets in Home Assistant? For temperature it could be either Kelvin, Fahrenheit or Celsius?

Reviewer: oh, never mind then. I thought it was specific to this sensor.

- **Tip temperature:** Monitors the current temperature of the soldering iron tip.
- **Handle temperature:** Displays the temperature of the soldering iron handle.
- **Estimated power:** Shows the estimated power consumption of the soldering iron.
- **DC input voltage:** Reports the voltage level being supplied to the soldering iron.
- **Last movement time:** Indicates when the soldering iron was last in motion (relative to the uptime of the device), useful for activity monitoring.
- **Operating mode:** Indicates the current operational state of the soldering iron, such as idle, soldering, boost, sleeping, settings, or debug.
- **Max tip temperature:** Indicates the maximum temperature that the currently inserted soldering iron tip supports.
- **Power level:** Displays the duty cycle of the pulse-width modulation (PWM) in percent, indicating the current power output of the soldering iron (for example, "50%" for a 50% duty cycle).

> - **Power source:** Identifies the current power source used by the soldering iron, such as DC input, USB Quick Charge, USB Power Delivery or USB Power Delivery VBUS.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
- **Power source:** Identifies the current power source used by the soldering iron, such as DC input, USB Quick Charge, USB Power Delivery, or USB Power Delivery VBUS.
```

- **Raw tip voltage:** Measures the raw voltage at the soldering iron tip.

> - **Tip resistance:** Indicates the resistance of the currently inserted soldering iron tip (e.g., "6.2 Ω" for short tips, "8 Ω" for normal tips)

Reviewer: ```suggestion
- **Tip resistance:** Indicates the resistance of the currently inserted soldering iron tip (for example, "6.2 Ω" for short tips, "8 Ω" for normal tips)
```
